day06/README.md, before:

# Day06 Notes (README) for Advent of Code 2023

## Solutions
- Part1: 4711 (`4_711`)
- Part2:

### Methods, General
- New types, checked math, some validity checks only on instantiation (burntsushi unwrap style), 
- Direct simulation (more work and less efficient, but worked nicely touched some visualization library work I wanted to do; mostly done outside of this project)
- Traits to simplify type-specific 'algebras' (operations)

### Errors Made
- Lots of pausing over how to deal with 2 hard and soft bounds on top of newtype ~indirection.
  - simply defining the math/interaction traits from the outset would be the simplest
  - trying to lean too much on auto-derives and then work around what they could give ultimately used time

### Logistics
- The more time efficient methods (e.g. just working on paths with obstacles) would have been faster, but, intentioanlly, I chose direct, step-by-step simulation as I wanted to look some visualization approaches.

### Had to Lookup
- many variations on addition (e.g. *checked*, *borrowed*, *saturating*)
- terminal methods for clearing screen and pausing (waiting on input)
  - methods for setting up an running egui (but this was mostly a parllel work route that wasn't brought back here)

### Needs
-



## Logging
# For a specific function/module in the day06 library
RUST_LOG=day06::support::subscriber=debug cargo run --bin check

# You can combine multiple filters with commas
RUST_LOG=check=debug,day06::support::subscriber=trace cargo run --bin check

# You can also use wildcards
RUST_LOG=check=debug,day06::support::*=trace cargo run --bin check
```

The format is generally:
- For binary code: `binary_name::module::submodule`
- For library code: `crate_name::module::submodule`

You can also use more complex directives like:
```bash
# Everything at info, but debug for specific paths
RUST_LOG=info,check=debug,day06::support=debug

# Everything at error, except specific modules at debug
RUST_LOG=error,check=debug,day06::support::subscriber=debug

Commit message:

docs(perf): perf error notes

day06/README.md, after:

# Day06 Notes (README) for Advent of Code 2023

## Solutions
- Part1: 4711 (`4_711`)
- Part2:

### Methods, General
- New types, checked math, some validity checks only on instantiation (burntsushi unwrap style), 
- Direct simulation (more work and less efficient, but worked nicely touched some visualization library work I wanted to do; mostly done outside of this project)
- Traits to simplify type-specific 'algebras' (operations)

### Errors Made
- Lots of pausing over how to deal with 2 hard and soft bounds on top of newtype ~indirection.
  - simply defining the math/interaction traits from the outset would be the simplest
  - trying to lean too much on auto-derives and then work around what they could give ultimately used time
- Tracing resulted in a 1_000x increase in runtime for Part1_full (3.3sec to 3.2ms)
  - I had two settings (1 for TracingErrors & one for general Tracing)
  - Tracing Errors had been set to `TRACE` by default and was not controlled by EnvFilter
  - *both* Error-Subscriber and general-Subscriber needed to be >= `WARN`
    - presumably because `INFO` is the default `#[instrument]` span level
  - Never calling a subscriber results in similar gains to scrubing all tracing code by feature flag
  - Setting to `WARN` results in about 0.7ms more time. (Unsure if that scales much or is mostly fixed.)
    - Scrubing tracing code, but still starting subscriber results in similar time increase, suggesting its mostly a fixed setup cost (though it could also be tracing/log info from other crates)

### Logistics
- The more time efficient methods (e.g. just working on paths with obstacles) would have been faster, but, intentioanlly, I chose direct, step-by-step simulation as I wanted to look some visualization approaches.

### Had to Lookup
- many variations on addition (e.g. *checked*, *borrowed*, *saturating*)
- terminal methods for clearing screen and pausing (waiting on input)
  - methods for setting up an running egui (but this was mostly a parllel work route that wasn't brought back here)

### Needs
-



## Logging
# For a specific function/module in the day06 library
RUST_LOG=day06::support::subscriber=debug cargo run --bin check

# You can combine multiple filters with commas
RUST_LOG=check=debug,day06::support::subscriber=trace cargo run --bin check

# You can also use wildcards
RUST_LOG=check=debug,day06::support::*=trace cargo run --bin check
```

The format is generally:
- For binary code: `binary_name::module::submodule`
- For library code: `crate_name::module::submodule`

You can also use more complex directives like:
```bash
# Everything at info, but debug for specific paths
RUST_LOG=info,check=debug,day06::support=debug

# Everything at error, except specific modules at debug
RUST_LOG=error,check=debug,day06::support::subscriber=debug
